---
layout: post
title: "The web is..."
meta: The web is amazing. And not only the web itself, but also all the people working in this industry.  These are my thoughts after attending theweb.is at beautiful Cardiff, Wales.
---

Amazing. And not only the web itself, but also all the people working in this industry. During the past four days I've met people that really cares about the past, present and future of the web and the way we work with it. These are my thoughts after attending [theweb.is](http://theweb.is) at beautiful Cardiff, Wales.

## What's been said
I don't intend to cover every topic of the conference, but the ones I personally think everybody should start taking way more seriously. 

- **Share what you know**: Brad Frost pushed for a more open web, like in its begginings, when it was open by default.
- **Progressive enhancement still IS important**: Phil Hawksworth proved that progressive enhancement is still very important. Relying on MVC JS frameworks is not a good plan. 
- **Set a performance budget**: Andy Davies showed how important is to set and keep a performance budget.
- **Create a responsive experience**: Sally Jenkinson opened up the idea of responsive design to a responsive UX.
- **Don’t dismiss devices just because you don’t use them**: Anna Debenham instated that: “just because you don't use a device, it doesn't mean other people don’t, so care about them”.

And I couldn't agree more with them. I've always been trying to push for a responsive experience aiming to do best in all the scenarios. These guys shared my thoughts. 

## Progressive enhancement as design
I'd dare to say that there's no better responsive that the one that works on all the scenarios. Starting with a **solid, scalable base** and enhancing both the design and the experience progressively depending on the capabilities of the device and the scenario would make a beautiful responsive website **every single time**. 

Now don't get me wrong, I'm not saying it has to be the same experience on every scenario. It doesn't have to look the same on IE7 than in latest Chrome (actually, it shouldn’t). It just has to work the best way possible keeping the main content always accessible.

But all this has been said before. [Everything is a remix](http://everythingisaremix.info/watch-the-series/). Just keep away the bullshit and go **content-first**, **mobile-first** and over all **performance-first**. From simple to complex. To keep it modular and accessible, use styleguides and test on real devices. Don’t take anything for granted though, test all the scenarios. This way, everything will be fine as long as you care from the very beginning of the project.

## Don't be an asshole, share what you know
Brad Frost closed the conference pushing for a web more similar to its beginnings, when everything was open by default. And I really want to encourage this. 
It doesn't matter how, you can go for it and **design in the open** as he has done with the [Pittsburgh Community Food Bank Redesign](http://foodbank.bradfrostweb.com/timeline/), blog, answer or ask on questions Stackoverflow or Quora. Whatever, but do it. 

It'll take you the same time to fix something if you write about it at the same time, but sharing this knowledge will make other people save time and even improve your fix, which in the end could even save you time!

So aim for a responsive experience and not only a responsive design while you write about it in the meantime. I've also changed the [license](/license/) of this site, convinced by Brad Frost's ideas. What about you?