---
title: Doing more
meta: I'm making a few changes in my life and my career. Here's why and how.
script: true
---

The web community will never cease to amaze me. I've learned so much from the people that take the time to share what they know, I sometimes feel bad not contributing. Seemed like now that I'm doing more design and less front-end, it was a good time to share how and why.

Since the moment I learned how to create a link in HTML, I was hooked. This was in 2009, I had just moved out from a small town in Spain where I had access to little to no internet and got in college. There I met my dear friend [Alejandro Urbano](https://urbanoalvarez.es) who first introduced me to the wonders of the Web.


<div class="u-expand">
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet tw-align-center" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">First do it, then do it right, then do it better - this is my mantra for successfully getting things done. It&#39;s all about the iteration.</p>&mdash; Addy Osmani (@addyosmani) <a href="https://twitter.com/addyosmani/status/314785735171518464">March 21, 2013</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</div>


I learned the basics of HTML and CSS pretty quickly, and soon I was craving for more. I rapidly identified with the ideology of great professionals like [Brad Frost](http://bradfrost.com), [Jeremy Keith](https://adactio.com), [Jonathan Snook](https://snook.ca) and [Lea Verou](http://lea.verou.me). I didn't even fully understood their articles and talks at the time as my English was terrible at the time.
Now, I have been lucky to have even met all these people and can confirm they're as amazing people as they are professionals.

At the time, concepts like _Responsive Web Design_ where very new and exciting. So I continued to pair my studies while learning on my own, got a job as a Junior Web Developer, and finally started freelancing, which got to a point where I could make it a full-time job, and so I did! I quit my degree and went full with freelancing.

## Taking a leap of faith
I had reached a milestone -- there's only so much you can learn by yourself. I needed to work in a company where I could learn from people who had more experience than me or worked on other disciplines. 

Madrid and Barcelona are great cities, but London has one the best communities in the world, if not the best. It _had_ to be London. On my own time, I had developed a passion for movies and story telling, so I used movies as a first step into learning English properly. Then I took some classes and decided to do it!

I moved to London in 2014 and joined [Base Creative](https://www.basecreative.co.uk), a nice little agency in Angel. This was my period of biggest professional growth. I had learned Sass on my own time (I took it quite far in [Codepen](http://codepen.io/jaicab/)), as a catchy skill for companies to hire me, but now I could apply all its potential. I worked hard in the mornings, along some great people -- like my friend designer [Jason Cianfrone](http://jcianfrone.com) -- while going to as many events as possible in the evenings, as well as plenty of international events. 

Every penny I saved I dedicated to attend events, to expand my knowledge on the Web and understand what matters to people in the industry. I became quite proficient in web performance thanks to the [LDN Web Perf meetup](https://ldnwebperf.org), which is probably my favourite event in the world, thanks to the great people in it. I released multiple open-source side projects, like localFont, now used by tons of people around the world.

## Doing more
Here we are again, another milestone. My understanding of the web, front-end development scene, and UX and UI design had expanded massively, but I was limited by the work I was doing. Freelancing seemed like a way of getting the freedom I needed to explore different projects.

<div class="c-embed u-expand">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9p1qSL9_nnI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Without even realising, attending all those events had gained me a decent number of connections and therefore, possible clients. So I quit my job at Base and started freelancing. Performance optimisations, UX engineering and style guide development were my main services, so I offered my services as front-end architect. I would liaise with designers to make sure the front-end standards for different projects were kept high while the codebase maintenance was as simple as possible (naming has a lot to do by the way).

While working on a project for [R/GA](https://www.rga.com), I realised how much I loved UX design, so I decided to do more. At this point in my career, either I went into MVC frameworks fully, or perfected my vanilla JavaScript skills, or learned more design. Otherwise, I would stop learning. And that wasn't an option.

## Understanding your passion
I've always found product design and architecture interesting, but my obsession over perfection never played well with the inflexibility of physical objects.

This is why I love CSS so much. It's this design language, flexible at any time, and interpreted depending on the content. A continuous puzzle that browsers try to solve, with the skills they have.

I used to watch documentaries like Helvetica or Objectified and feel a connection with people like Dieter Rams or Massimo Vignelli, so I had studied and applied their work, along with other great designers. 

<div class="c-embed u-expand">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nXwpn90Gdec" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

I realised that what I am ultimately passionate about is User Experience, but in a broader understanding of the term. 
My obsession over CSS naming conventions like BEMIT, pattern-based development like styeguide-first and document-all-the-things are no more than ways of improving UX for the people working on the web, while putting the user needs first.

Realising this meant I wanted to fully focus on UX. The only way you can get better at design is practice. I had to drop my coding time to as little as possible, yet that was what I was _really_ senior in. 

## Product design
A Product designer is often seen as an UI designer, yet lately it's being related to front-end development. I knew I wanted to keep travelling, so the idea of working remotely was really interesting as well.

Finally, this happened at my current job at Moteef. This platform is being rebuilt from scratch, and I'm taking care of UX design and front-end standards, as well as some product management, all working remotely.

My process is the following: having a technical background, I usually use the data we have as a starting point for a UX spec document. I then study the scenario and analyse conversion impact for the task at hand, while considering the flow and the user needs across all devices. I then create mockups for the baseline case, and create modifiers for the components that will change on different scenarios, while keeping component reusability in mind.

This is a slightly different approach to UX, but the result is a list of components right from the UX stage, where developers can easily take this into blocks, elements and modifiers, and everyone in the team can refer to them with a shared, non-technical language.

I am very happy about the next steps that are to follow. I plan to travel the world while becoming a more senior designer. I even intend to do more UI. This is exciting.








